Attention Is All You Need

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit

Abstract
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train.

1. Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures. Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

3. Model Architecture
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure. Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations to a sequence of continuous representations. Given z, the decoder then generates an output sequence of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive, consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next.

3.1 Encoder and Decoder Stacks
The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization.

3.2 Attention
An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key. We call our particular attention Scaled Dot-Product Attention.

4. Results
On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms the best previously reported models including ensembles by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4. The Transformer achieves better results than all previously published models and ensembles on the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, with training cost a small fraction of the previous state of the art model.

5. Conclusion
In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. The Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers. We achieved new state of the art on English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks.
